# Obfuscation Benchmarks

By *Obfuscation Benchmarks* we mean programs which can be obfuscated using different tools at: source code, intermediate representation and/or machine code level.
The reason for obfuscating these programs can be (but is not limited) to compare the strength of different obfuscation transformations/implementations against both human-assisted and automated attacks. 
This repository contains the source code of C programs, which can be used as obfuscation benchmarks. 

## Description of Each Directory

  - `basic-algorithms` contains typical algorithms taught in Bachelor level computer science and programming courses, e.g. factorial, sorting algorithms, searching algorithms, greatest common divisor, least common multiple, etc.
  - `resources` contains archives of some of the tools we used for our experiments. We install these tools in an [automated Docker build](https://hub.docker.com/r/banescusebi/obfuscation-symex/) (instructions provided below), where one can play around with the tools and scripts provided in this repository, without the hassle of installing an configurating everything from scratch.
  - `simple-hash-functions` contains non-cryptographic hash functions 
  - `small-programs` contains a set of 48 programs with few lines of code constructed by varying the following code characteristics:
    - Range of symbolic inputs
    - Number of symbolic inputs
    - Depth of nested control flow
    - Number of IF-statements
    - Number of input dependent IF-statements
    - Type of IF-condition
    - Number of loops
    - Number of input length dependent loops (e.g. if the input is 10 characters long, then the loop has 10 iterations)
    - Number of input value dependent loops (e.g. if the input is an integer equal to 100, then the loop has 100 iterations)
  - `tigress-generated-programs` contains a large set of programs automatically generated by the `RandomFuns` transformation of the [Tigress C Diversifier/Obfuscator](http://tigress.cs.arizona.edu/) by varying the following command line options:
    - `Seed` randomization seed
    - `RandomFunsTypes` data type of variables
    - `RandomFuns Operators` types of operators (e.g. arithmetic, logic)
    - `RandomFunsControlStructures` control structure of the program
    - `RandomFunsBasicBlockSize` the number of statements in each basic block
    - `RandomFunsForBound` the type of bound in loop conditions (e.g. constant, input dependent) 
  - `scrips` contains bash, Python and R scripts to obfuscate C programs
    using the Tigress and ollvm obfuscation tools and to perform a
symbolic execution attack described a series of papers by Banescu et
al. [1], [2] and [3]. For more details about how to use these scripts
see README inside folder.

## Automated Docker Build

Based on Ubuntu 14.04, having the following software installed:

* KLEE symbolic execution engine (latest Docker)
* Tigress C Obfuscator (version 2.2)
* SATGraf (version 0.2)
* Z3 SMT Solver (version 4.5.0)

### Root credentials

* Username: klee
* Password: klee

### Running the container in Ubuntu

To run GUI apps from the container execute the following command:
```sh
XSOCK=/tmp/.X11-unix
XAUTH=/tmp/.docker.xauth
touch $XAUTH
xauth nlist $DISPLAY | sed -e 's/^..../ffff/' | xauth -f $XAUTH nmerge -
docker run -it --volume=$XSOCK:$XSOCK:rw \
               --volume=$XAUTH:$XAUTH:rw \
               --env="XAUTHORITY=${XAUTH}" \
               --env="DISPLAY" --user="klee" banescusebi/obfuscation-symex
```

If you also want to mount your current directoy to a directlory called
`test` then replace the last command from above with:
```sh
docker run -it --volume=$XSOCK:$XSOCK:rw \
               --volume=$XAUTH:$XAUTH:rw \
               --env="XAUTHORITY=${XAUTH}" \
               --env="DISPLAY" --user="klee" \
               --mount type=bind,src="$(pwd)",dst=/home/klee/test \
               banescusebi/obfuscation-symex
```

### Running the container in macOS X

This [post](https://cntnr.io/running-guis-with-docker-on-mac-os-x-a14df6a76efc) 
helpful to follow in order to run GUI apps from the container on macOS X.
For convenience we present the steps here:

```sh
brew install socat
socat TCP-LISTEN:6000,reuseaddr,fork UNIX-CLIENT:\"$DISPLAY\"
```

Install [xQuartz](https://www.xquartz.org/) either using the following commands or downloding the .dmg file from the website.

```sh
brew install xquartz
```

After installing xQuartz run the following command:

```sh
open -a XQuartz
```

In the preferences window of XQuartz, in the "Security" tab, check the "Allow connections from network clients" checkbox.

```sh
IP=$(ifconfig en0 | grep inet | awk '$1=="inet" {print $2}')
docker run -it -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix \
           -e DISPLAY=$IP:0 banescusebi/obfuscation-symex
```

## References

1. Banescu, S., Ochoa, M., & Pretschner, A. (2015, May). _A framework for measuring software obfuscation resilience against automated attacks_. In Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Software Protection.
2. Banescu, S., Collberg, C., Ganesh, V., Newsham, Z., & Pretschner, A. (2016, December). _Code obfuscation against symbolic execution attacks_. In Proceedings of the 32nd Annual Conference on Computer Security Applications.
3. Banescu, S., Collberg, C., & Pretschner, A. (2017, August). _Predicting the Resilience of Obfuscated Code Against Symbolic Execution Attacks via Machine Learning_. In Proceedings of the 26th USENIX Security Symposium.
4. Banescu, S. E. (2017, August). _Characterizing the Strength of Software Obfuscation Against Automated Attacks_. Doctoral dissertation, Technische Universit&#228;t M&#252;nchen.
